= Ruby FFMpeg Library

"ffmpeg-ruby" is a ruby gem library (work in progress) that provides bindings allowing you to access the ffmpeg under ruby. FFMpeg is a cross-platform solution to record, convert and stream audio and video. It includes libavcodec - the leading audio/video codec library.

This implementation is starting by doing the translation for some of the functions in libavcodec and libavformat to ruby.

FFMpeg is provided by http://ffmpeg.org/ under the LGPL license.

This bindings gem is graciously provided by http://www.channels.com under the LGPL license.

== Installing

 $ gem install ffmpeg-ruby

== Installation troubleshooting

If you run into trouble, it could be the C bundle not building. This is known to happen on MacOS 64-bit or with the ffmpeg from macports. You basically need to run ruby extconf yourself then.


 $ ruby extconf.rb

You may need to add +--with+ on mac, to point it to macports' /opt/local for the libraries.

== Mac Notes

Because of the way the library gets built, it needs to match the architecture type of your ruby. You can force it to do this by specifying the ++-arch++ flag. For a 64-bit ruby on Snow Leopard:

  $ sudo port install ffmpeg
  (go have coffee)
  $ sudo env ARCHFLAGS="-arch x86_64" gem install ffmpeg-ruby

If your machine is 32 bit, the ++ARCHFLAGS++ above should be ++ARCHFLAGS="-arch i386"+

This will provide you with a bundle you can require.

== Usage

See the code on +test/+ for usage. But basically it goes like this:

  require 'ffmpeg-ruby'

	# Get a list of the video codecs supported
	FFMpeg::AVCodec.supported_video_codecs 

	# Get a list of the audio codecs supported
	FFMpeg::AVCodec.supported_video_codecs 

	# Create new AVFormatContext
	f = FFMpeg::AVFormatContext.new("/path/to/my/video.mov")

	f.codec_contexts.each{ |ctx|
	  puts ctx.name # The name of the codec this file uses.
	}

